.TH LX 6
.SH NAME
lx \- configuration file for lx
.SH DESCRIPTION
The file path is
.B $home/lib/lx.
.PP
Some options have two forms:
.I option=value
and
.I HOST.option=value.
The first form provides a default value, applicable to any
host; the second is used to override the default for a specific
host.
.I HOST
can be a unqualified host name, an FQDN or an IP address.
.TP
.B default-host
Specifies the Linux host to connect to if option
.IR -h
is not provided.
.TP
.B minport, maxport
Specifies the port range to be used for serving the Plan 9
namespace to Linux. The width of this range will be the maximum
number of
.IR lx
commands that can be run simultaneously.
.TP
.B mounts, HOST.mounts
Lists the bind-mounts to be performed before running the
process. This should be a comma-separated list of colon-separated
pairs of directories. For example for the value
.L /a:/b,/c:/d
the files under
.L /a
(resp.
.L /c
)
on Plan 9 will be available under
.L /b
(resp.
.L /d
) to the Linux process. The directories must exist and be
permissioned correctly.
.TP
.B command, HOST.command
The command that should be run if none is provided on the
.IR lx
command line. Single quotes may be used.
.TP
.B port, HOST.port
The port to listen on \- defaults to 9000
.SH EXAMPLE
.TP
Assuming the file contains:
.ft L
.nf
default-host=rabbit
minport=3000
maxport=3049
mounts=/usr/roger:/usr/roger
command=rc -il
rabbit.port=7000
turtle.port=8000
turtle.mounts=/usr/roger:/usr/roger,/sys/src:/usr/src/plan9
.fi

.PP
Then the command
.B lx
will connect to machine
.B rabbit
on port 7000 and run the command
.B rc -il
in a Linux namespace where
.B /usr/roger
refers to the Plan 9 directory
.B /usr/roger.
.PP
The command
.B lx -h turtle
will connect to machine
.B turtle
on port 8000 and run the command
.B rc -il
in a Linux namespace where
.B /usr/roger
refers to the Plan 9 directory
.B /usr/roger,
and
.B /usr/src/plan9
refers to the Plan 9 directory
.B /sys/src.
.PP
In both cases the Plan 9 namespace will be exported by running
exportfs(1) on a port between 3000 and 3049.
.TH SEE ALSO
lx(1)
